sample_material,AIR,Air
sample_material,BAL,Bronchoalveolar lavage
sample_material,BLO,Blood
sample_material,CCF,Combined cloacal and fecal
sample_material,CCO,Combined cloacal and oral-pharyngeal 
sample_material,CCT,Combined cloacal and tracheal
sample_material,CLO,Cloacal
sample_material,FEC,Feces
sample_material,LLF,Lung lavage fluid
sample_material,LUN,Lungs
sample_material,NAL,Nasal lavage
sample_material,NAS,Nasal swab
sample_material,NTS,Combined nasal throat swab
sample_material,ORP,Oral-pharyngeal
sample_material,OTT,Other tissue
sample_material,PLS,Plasma
sample_material,RCS,Rectal swab
sample_material,SER,Serum
sample_material,SLU,Slurry
sample_material,SOI,Soil
sample_material,SPU,Sputum
sample_material,TFB,Tissue from brain
sample_material,TFT,Tissue from trachea
sample_material,TRS,Tracheal swab
sample_material,WAT,Water
sample_material,U,Unknown
sample_transport_medium,ETH,Ethanol
sample_transport_medium,GUA,Guanidine
sample_transport_medium,SER,Serum
sample_transport_medium,VTM,Viral transport medium
sample_transport_medium,U,Unknown
host_capture_status,ABT,Abattoir
host_capture_status,ACT,Active surveillance
host_capture_status,FRM,Farm sample
host_capture_status,HUN,Opportunistically sampled
host_capture_status,MRK,Market sample
host_capture_status,OBK,Sample collected in response to outbreak
host_capture_status,PET,Sample obtained from a pet
host_capture_status,SEH,Semi-enclosed housing
host_capture_status,ZOO,Sample obtained from a zoo
host_capture_status,U,Unknown
host_health,DED,Dead
host_health,HLT,Healthy
host_health,SIC,Sick
host_health,U,Unknown
host_natural_state,CPW,Captive wild animals
host_natural_state,DMF,Domestic feral
host_natural_state,DOM,Domestic Indisputably
host_natural_state,WLD,Wild indisputably
host_natural_state,U,Unknown
host_habitat,FRF,Farm free-range
host_habitat,FRI,Farm indoor
host_habitat,MAR,Live market
host_habitat,MIG,Migratory
host_habitat,RES,Resident
host_habitat,SEH,Semi-enclosed housing
host_habitat,U,Unknown
host_sex,M,Male
host_sex,F,Female
host_sex,U,Unknown
host_age,ADL,Adult
host_age,JUV,Juvenile
host_age,PUP,Pup
host_age,SAD,Subadult
host_age,WNL,Weanling
host_age,U,Unknown/undetermined
pathogen_test_interpretation,P,Positive
pathogen_test_interpretation,N,Negative
pathogen_test_interpretation,U,Unknown or inconclusive
pathogen_test_interpretation,NA,Not Applicable
