sample_material,AIR,Air
sample_material,BAL,Bronchoalveolar lavage
sample_material,BLO,Blood
sample_material,FEC,Feces
sample_material,LLF,Lung lavage fluid
sample_material,LUN,Lungs
sample_material,NAL,Nasal lavage
sample_material,NAS,Nasal swab
sample_material,NPH,Nasopharyngeal swab
sample_material,NTS,Combined nasal throat swab
sample_material,ORP,Oral-pharyngeal
sample_material,OTT,Other tissue
sample_material,PLS,Plasma
sample_material,RCS,Rectal swab
sample_material,SER,Serum
sample_material,SLU,Slurry
sample_material,SPU,Sputum
sample_material,TFB,Tissue from brain
sample_material,TFT,Tissue from trachea
sample_material,TRS,Tracheal swab
sample_material,U,Unknown
host_sex,M,Male
host_sex,F,Female
longitudinal_study,Y,Yes
longitudinal_study,N,No
pathogen_test_interpretation,P,Positive
pathogen_test_interpretation,N,Negative
pathogen_test_interpretation,U,Unknown or inconclusive
pathogen_test_interpretation,NA,Not Applicable
exposure,Y,Yes
exposure,N,No
pathogen_test_result,P,Positive
pathogen_test_result,N,Negative
pathogen_test_result,U,Unknown or inconclusive
pathogen_test_result,NA,Not Applicable
exposure_type,BYF,Backyard flock
exposure_type,CAF,Confined animal feeding operation or large farms
exposure_type,FAR,Farm
exposure_type,FPR,Food preparation
exposure_type,SLA,Slaughterhouse
exposure_type,NA,Not Applicable
disease_status,DIE,Died
disease_status,REC,Recovered
disease_status,RWS,Recovered with sequelae
treatment,AMA,Amantadine
treatment,NON,None
treatment,OSE,Oseltamivir
treatment,PMV,Peramivir
treatment,RIM,Rimantadine
treatment,ZAN,Zanamivir
source_of_vaccine_information,DOC,Documented
source_of_vaccine_information,SRP,Self reported
source_of_vaccine_information,NA,Not Applicable
chronic_conditions,ALL,Allergies
chronic_conditions,ASM,Asthma
chronic_conditions,CAN,Cancer
chronic_conditions,CDV,Cardiovascular disease 
chronic_conditions,DER,Dermatologic disorder 
chronic_conditions,DGS,Digestive System disease 
chronic_conditions,END,Endocrine Metabolic disorder
chronic_conditions,HEM,Hematological disease 
chronic_conditions,HPT,Hepatobiliary disease 
chronic_conditions,IMS,Immunosuppression
chronic_conditions,MSK,Musculoskeletal disorder 
chronic_conditions,NRL,Neurologic disorder 
chronic_conditions,OBS,Obesity
chronic_conditions,PNC,Pancreatic disease 
chronic_conditions,RSP,Respiratory disease 
chronic_conditions,URO,Urogenital disease 
education,ILL,Illiterate
education,ESS,Some elementary school
education,ESC,Completed elementary school
education,ESN,Elementary education not specified
education,HSS,Some high school
education,HSC,Completed high school
education,HSN,High school education not specified
education,HES,Some higher education
education,HEC,Completed higher education
education,HEN,Higher education not specified
education,TSS,Some technical school
education,TSC,Completed technical school
education,TSN,Technical education not specified
